.TH AGENT-STORE 1 "July 2026" "agent-store 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
agent-store \- project-local memory and context store for AI coding agents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B agent-store
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B agent-store
is a project-local store for agent-facing records, links, hooks, and
context, backed by a single SQLite file in the
.I .agent-store/
directory of the current project.
Records are schemaless: each has a kind, an ID, and arbitrary
key=value fields.
Records can be connected with directional links, queried with a small
boolean query language, and observed with hooks that run bash commands
on store mutations.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Print structured JSON for command output.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Initialize the project-local store, install builtin skills, and add
managed agent-store instructions to existing AGENTS.md and CLAUDE.md
files.
.TP
\fBcreate\fR \fIkind\fR [\fIkey=value\fR...] (alias: \fBcr\fR)
Create a record with the supplied kind and fields, then print its
record ID.
With
.B \-\-stdin
instead of positional arguments, bulk-import JSONL from stdin: one JSON
object per line of the shape
.BR "{\[dq]kind\[dq]: \[dq]...\[dq], \[dq]fields\[dq]: {...}}" ,
the same record shape
.B find \-\-json
emits.
Every line is validated before any record is created.
.TP
\fBfind\fR [\fB\-\-timestamps\fR] [\fB\-\-sort\fR \fIfield\fR] [\fB\-\-desc\fR] [\fB\-\-limit\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-count\fR] [\fIquery\fR] (alias: \fBls\fR)
Find records by query.
Multiple query arguments are joined with an implicit
.BR and .
Without a query, every record is listed in creation order.
See
.B QUERY LANGUAGE
below.
.TP
\fBget\fR [\fB\-\-timestamps\fR] \fIID\fR
Print one record resolved from an unambiguous record ID prefix.
.TP
\fBset\fR \fIID\fR \fIkey=value\fR...
Resolve a record ID prefix and update the supplied fields atomically.
.TP
\fBunset\fR \fIID\fR \fIkey\fR...
Resolve a record ID prefix and remove the supplied fields atomically.
.TP
\fBrm\fR \fIID\fR
Resolve a record ID prefix and delete that record.
.TP
\fBlink\fR \fIfrom\fR \fIrel\fR \fIto\fR
Create one directional link between two records.
.TP
\fBunlink\fR \fIfrom\fR \fIrel\fR \fIto\fR
Remove one directional link between two records.
.TP
\fBlinks\fR \fIID\fR
Print outgoing and incoming links for a record.
.TP
\fBctx\fR (alias: \fBcontext\fR)
Print a compact Quick Context summary capped at 8192 bytes, ending with
the 10 most recently updated records.
.TP
\fBhook add\fR \fIevent\fR [\fIquery\fR] \fB\-\-\fR \fIbash command\fR
Store a hook for the
.BR create ,
.BR set ,
.BR unset ,
.BR rm ,
.BR link ,
or
.B unlink
event.
When a query is provided, the hook runs only for matching records.
Hook commands are killed after a 30-second timeout; each receives the
affected record snapshot on stdin plus
.B AGENT_STORE_*
environment variables (see
.BR "agent-store hook \-\-help" ).
.TP
.B hook ls
List hooks.
.TP
\fBhook rm\fR \fIID\fR
Resolve a hook ID prefix and remove that hook.
.TP
\fBhook runs\fR [\fB\-\-limit\fR \fIN\fR | \fIRUN-ID\fR]
List recent hook runs newest first (20 by default), or print one run's
full detail including captured stdout and stderr (capped at 8192 bytes
each).
.SH QUERY LANGUAGE
Queries combine comparisons with
.BR and ,
.BR or ,
.BR not ,
and parentheses;
.B and
binds tighter than
.BR or .
Comparisons support
.BR = ,
.BR != ,
.BR < ,
.BR <= ,
.BR > ,
and
.B >=
over kind and field values, plus
.B link.out
and
.B link.in
predicates.
The
.B ~=
operator matches a case-insensitive substring.
The built-in
.B created_at
and
.B updated_at
timestamps compare like fields (for example
.BR created_at>2026\-01\-01 ).
Numbers compare numerically when both sides are numeric; otherwise
values compare as text.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
agent-store init
agent-store create task title="Fix login redirect" status=pending
agent-store find kind=task status=pending
agent-store find 'severity=high or priority<2' --sort created_at --desc
agent-store set 1a2b3c status=done
agent-store link 1a2b3c blocks 4d5e6f
agent-store hook add set kind=task -- 'echo "$AGENT_STORE_ID" >> audit.log'
agent-store ctx
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .agent-store/
Project-local store directory created by
.BR "agent-store init" ,
containing the SQLite database.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 on success and non-zero on any error (parse error, missing
store, ambiguous or unknown ID prefix, failed import).
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation and query, hooks, and JSON references at
.UR https://github.com/av/agent-store
.UE
